One kind of cryptographic function
that's really important is hashes.
So we've already been doing, we've already
done a little bit with hashes already
today, but
I just kinda wanna cover that so
that we're not,
we can deal with it more in depth.
So a hash function takes a very,
maybe very small,
maybe a very large chunk of data and
generates a fixed size of data.
And if you change one byte in the input,
you'll dramatically change the output.
So a really good hashing function will
have a completely different output.
If you just change a single byte or
maybe add a character, remove a character,
this kind of thing.
So hashes are really useful for
verifying that you have
the data that you expect to see.
So for example, if you download
a Linux ISO really big file,
you can run ShaSum on that file
to compute the Sha256, Sha512.
And oftentimes you'll get like the hash
from the website where you download those
files so that you can verify that yeah,
okay, the download didn't screw up
even though it took like hours and
maybe it had to resume a couple of times.
I know that I for
sure have the data that I thought I got.
It's also an important idea if you want
to protect against certain kinds of man
in the middle attacks where
there might be an adversary.
Who, maybe that adversary is
a Wi-Fi network that wants to like
insert ads into your HTTP requests or
something like that.
Hashes can give you some guarantees
about the robustness of your data.
And later on,
we'll be using hashes to build some
interesting data structures
like Merkle tags.
Anyways, so to do hashes in node,
you can either use the built in crypto
library, so you can require crypto,
create hash, and then you give it
the name of an algorithm like Sha512.
And node is gonna return
back transform stream that's
going to perform that hashing operation.
So being is that's a transform stream.
We can pipe it somewhere
just ignore that output.
It's fine.
So if we write a message like
hello world and then we end the stream.
Then we get back the hash
which in this case is binary.
But if you pass in an encoding,
you can for
example create a hex string
instead of that binary stuff.
So encoding hex will give us that output.
I forgot to pipe it somewhere.
Luckily, these are streams to streams.
So here we go.
So here's the hash, I can just quickly
verify that I get the same output that I
expected to get on the command line,
so I had the string hi as input.
So I can echo hi without a new line and
then pipe that into ShaSum -a 512.
Yep, gives us the same hash back.
So, it's just good to check this
kinda stuff whenever you're
dealing with hashes cuz,
you might have an extra new line or you
might have like an extra single byte that
visually inspecting it looks the same, but
it's actually one byte off and
that's what hashes are meant to detect.
So, just stuff you have to be careful.
If you're doing hashing in the browser,
I recommend that you use sorry.
That should be create dash hash.
Recommend that you use the create dash
hash package because then you're not
going to pull down all of the node
crypto library into your browser code.